# Post Mortem

From this second project I’ve realized that programming is difficult. The difficult part is the self-learning aspect because documentation is difficult to understand. I’ve spent hours trying to figure out how to save the photos taken and that totally derailed myself from making adequate progress to the overall quality of the project. The time taken to what I thought was supposed to be a simple solution took many hours and I still couldn’t figure it out. This was very demotivating and made the project less interesting/fun. 
I’ve tried to find many solutions on the C# and Xamarin mobile chatrooms on Discord but couldn’t find any competent solutions nor solutions that I was competent enough to understand. Somebody recommended that I adopt another person’s library/camera app to save an image. I found this solution highly problematic and lost a bit more morale from the response. 
As the project’s deadline came to an end I decided to get back to working on the image manipulation aspects of the project. This was very easy to implement but I didn’t have enough time to fix some redundant code which could have definitely made the app faster. What I could have done was take out the redundant for-loop of creating a whole new bitmap each time an image was to be manipulated. I could have instead used the same bitmap. What I think prevented me from implemented this possible feature was because I had lost some confidence from the previous failure discussed above. I decided instead to pursue a higher priority requirement of the project which was to have different layouts. I chose to switch between activities to change the layout and found that I couldn’t implement this solution smoothly. I don’t know what the bug was but it’s something I have to work out for the third project. My guess would be that it had something to do with the file saving aspect since the activities that I was trying to switch between referenced an imageview.
For improving the assignment in the future, I’d like to have a structured documentation to learn faster. If the goal of the course is to find my own sound documentation, I guess that’s something I need to get better at then. For the future student taking this course as it is, I’d suggest to drop trying to find a solution to a problem and come back to it later if it takes more than an absurd amount of time. That way, you come back to it with a fresh mind and can save time if you are not in the right headspace to actually recognize a sound path to solving the problem. 
This assignment requires that we access files from the camera app which means we are beginning to have to become more competent with the Intent system. For this reason, the future student would be in a better position for progress if they focused on these aspects rather than worrying about saving the files like me. There are still many students in class who don’t know how to save the files and I find it annoying that such a simple feature could be so obscure. I guess it’s a security issue of writing to a system. Overall, I hope to make greater progress in project 3 and look forward to the final assignment to make something awesome.
