# Post Mortem

This project is one that I have been most satisfied with. It it not free of bugs but they are not complicated to fix. What I most appreciated about this project was that I learned how to use the debugger and Logs to keep track and check on variables and the flow of the code. I switched for to Android Studio for this project and it was a good choice. There was so much documentation all on the same Android Developer page which made things really easy. I had to research a lot with Xamarin and it was hard to find what I was looking for or explanations how some things worked were kind of either not easily not explained to a beginner or  were left out. For example, Google API and Intent passing was something I struggled with on Xamarin but the Android documentation made reading about and following the tutorials much easier. I particularly liked the "onClick" tab in the IDE which linked functoins to buttons in Android Studio. This made it very easy to program. I think the appeal of Xamarin is the language's aesthetics. However, I find java and Android Studio much easier to learn and get the basics with. I feel very competent I can build good apps now after doing this project.

For this project I learned how to create a Service class and have it send out Broadcast messages according to a countdown timer. It was a difficult to do, but I didn't give up hope because there was so much information on the internet on how to do things in java. After having a Service running, I had some issues with the onBind() and startService() functions which both started the services. These were issues encountered from not fully understanding the Activity/Service lifecycle. While testing the app, it was occuring in the debugger that the Service was starting up multiple times, and once that was fixed, it was ending and then starting itself back up. I think this is because I copy and pasted exactly from a tutorial that wasn't using a Service in exactly the same was I was. I was using a Service that needed to have only one runnning Service to count and it could not be destroyed when the activity that calls it dies. I see that the bug is in the @Override of OnDestroy() for the receiving end of the some of my activities. I bet if I took that out and edited the @Overrides of onResume() or onStart() functions then the Service would be fixed. This app still has some things to be done but I am determined to get it in perfect working order because using my own app that's tailored to myself can be a great asset in my health goals. My friends who have android devices can also use it too. I bet this app would envourage them to complete a 24 or even 72 hour fast, if they had the opportunity to have my app/myself to hold them accountable.

One this that I'm a little disappointed about is that I couldn't realize my goal of changing the colors of the heart based on the color spectrum. Also, I didn't have time to figure out how to make an image of a water holder with "real" water in it. Instead I had to get creative and use a textfield with the words "water" to signify the amount of water left to drink in a visually appealing way. I'm not a designer but I have taken a color and design class. I'll tweak some colors and things after i debug this, though I am honestly satisfied with the way it looks now. I like seeing the words "water" than just blue space. Maybe that's just me. I hope the next user enjoys this "feauture" as well. I hope to implement some of the theories I've learned to my final project because that can be fun and maybe I'll make a very impressively looking app. Overall I had some creative moments in coming up and building this app and am thoroughly satisfied. I hope I can get a job as an app developer upon graduation or at least as understanding of mobile apps to be able to make an app worth a millions very soon. I am feeling abundant in ideas and something will come to me soon. My next project will be linking the app to hardware so that's exciting. I could make a wearable clothing line/gadgets that can guide you through Feldenkrais excercises "correctly". 
